
Log In
NFL
NBA
NCAAM
Soccer
MMA
MLB
More ESPN
Fantasy
Listen
Watch
	NFL
Home
NFL Draft
Scores
Schedule
Standings
Stats
Teams
Injuries
Transactions
Coaches
More
O'Connor: Peyton Manning shares lasting bond with high school coach
DENVER BRONCOS
4y
Ian O'Connor
Source: Colorado hiring Dolphins' Dorrell as coach
COLORADO BUFFALOES
10h
Roethlisberger (elbow) resumes throwing footballs
PITTSBURGH STEELERS
11h
Brooke Pryor
Agent: Crosby stays with Packers on 3-year deal
GREEN BAY PACKERS
9h
Rob Demovsky
Source: Franchise designation period pushed
6h
WR Amendola re-signs with Lions, agent says
DETROIT LIONS
13h
Jets sign former first-round pick Josh Doctson
NEW YORK JETS
14h
Rich Cimini
Could the future (quarterback) be now? Packers GM won't rule it out
GREEN BAY PACKERS
1d
Rob Demovsky
Dolphins' focus at combine: Tua Tagovailoa, O-linemen and more
MIAMI DOLPHINS
2d
Cameron Wolfe
Whom will the Bucs be watching most closely at the combine?
2d
Jenna Laine
Austin Hooper's next deal could reset the tight end market
2d
Vaughn McClure
Cardinals will feel impact of keeping left tackle D.J. Humphries
2d
Josh Weinfuss
Raiders should target WRs, MLBs and CBs at the combine
2d
Paul Gutierrez
Who changed, who stayed put: Coordinators for all 32 NFL teams
BUFFALO BILLS
3d
NFL Nation
Welcome to the 2020 NFL offseason: Key dates, priorities and more
19d
Kevin Seifert
Sources: Ravens make Martindale top-paid DC
BALTIMORE RAVENS
12h
Jamison Hensley
What's going on with the NFL CBA vote? Everything you need to know
1d
Dan Graziano
Bears clear cap space, cut Gabriel, Amukamara
CHICAGO BEARS
1d
Gut feeling: Ravens lineman wins steak challenge
BALTIMORE RAVENS
2d
Jamison Hensley
NFL OKs stadium betting lounges, but no betting
1d
David Purdum
Sources: NFL CBA vote set to go to membership
2d
Sources: Chiefs' Bieniemy out of Colorado search
COLORADO BUFFALOES
2d
Bills DE Hughes has second surgery of offseason
BUFFALO BILLS
2d
Marcel Louis-Jacques
HBO: Lynch has 'substantial role' in 'Westworld'
SEATTLE SEAHAWKS
2d
Paul Gutierrez
Source: 'Snacks' Harrison getting let go by Lions
DETROIT LIONS
2d
Michael Rothstein
Star LB, longtime coach, Radakovich dies at 84
PENN STATE NITTANY LIONS
2d
Bills' Ford fine reduced; funds donated to charity
BUFFALO BILLS
2d
Marcel Louis-Jacques
Owners approve proposed CBA; player vote next
2d
Who changed, who stayed put: Coordinators for all 32 NFL teams
BUFFALO BILLS
3d
NFL Nation
Browns wide receiver Landry has hip surgery
CLEVELAND BROWNS
3d
Jake Trotter
Peyton Manning shares lasting bond with high school coach
play
Feb 5, 2016
Ian O'Connor
ESPN Senior Writer
Facebook
Twitter
Facebook Messenger
Pinterest
Email
print
SAN FRANCISCO -- Back home in New Orleans, a man who had endured three heart attacks, three back surgeries, an orange-sized growth on his liver, two knee replacement surgeries and a near-death encounter with Hurricane Katrina had just spotted a package on his porch. Tony Reginelli figured it was his standard shipment of medical supplies, at least until he and his wife of more than a half-century, Joan, noticed the name of the sender.

EDITOR'S PICKS

Archie Manning says Peyton hasn't made up mind on retirement

Peyton Manning: Four Super Bowls, four head coaches

Injuries give Peyton Manning lesson in patience
Peyton Manning.

The Reginellis dug into the box and pulled out a charcoal-colored Super Bowl jacket with an NFL football patch on the back, a star on the front, the number 50 on the side, and the date of the big game, Feb. 7, 2016, stitched inside. On the phone Thursday, as Joan looked over the jacket in her husband's closet, she came across a couple of shirts carrying the Manning name and number, 18.

But no, Tony Reginelli isn't your average 82-year-old superfan living out his own glory days through the career endgame of an all-time great. Reginelli is the high school coach who junked his veer offense at Isidore Newman School to accommodate the gangly pocket passer who didn't have his old man Archie's wheels.

"Coach," a tentative, teenage Peyton asked Reginelli back in the day, "we're not going to run the option, are we?"

Reginelli allowed himself a laugh over the memory, before apologizing if the pain medication made him sound tired and weak. Manning sent the jacket the other day as a get-well gift after Reginelli's latest back surgery, and as a way to keep the old coach connected Sunday when he settles in to watch the Denver Broncos and Carolina Panthers on TV.

Manning called Reginelli earlier this week as a follow-up; he'd been in contact with all five of his high school, college and pro head coaches in the lead-up to what will likely be the final game of his distinguished football life. At his news conference Thursday, Manning said of Reginelli, "He was truly one of a kind and a special man."


Eli and Peyton Manning have a lasting relationship with Tony Reginelli, the former coach at their high school. Jonathan Bachman/AP Images
Nearly every pro athlete holds fast to the sweetest memories of his or her high school coach, and Manning is no exception. Reginelli kept saying how shocked he was by the beautiful jacket his quarterback had sent him, at least until the old coach inside of him reached for a whistle.

"I just want Peyton to concentrate on this game," Reginelli said.

Don't worry, Coach. Peyton Williams Manning is most definitely concentrating on this game.

But even as he approaches this stunning duel with Cam Newton, a Super Bowl appearance that seemed unfathomable to his family and friends only a month ago, Manning has Reginelli on his mind. The quarterback has spearheaded an effort to raise more than $100,000 to rebuild some structures around the Newman football field and to rename its entrance "Reginelli Way," in honor of the coach who first took the head-coaching reins in 1968 and retired 26 years later. The dedication is set for the end of the month, according to Reginelli's son, Reggie, and Peyton is scheduled to attend.

Will he be an officially retired living legend at that point? The Reginellis, both two-sport athletes at Tulane, aren't in agreement on that one.

"I think it's definitely Peyton's last game," Reggie said, "but my dad seems to think that Peyton is so competitive that he might take off a couple of months and decide to give it one more year."

Of course Tony Reginelli sees his quarterback fighting on. Reginelli grew up in the Mississippi Delta as one of nine kids in a farming family that believed work was more essential to the household than education once eighth-grade schooling was complete. Tony was the first of the Reginelli kids to continue into high school and beyond, and his athleticism delivered him to a football and baseball career at Tulane, where he was an all-SEC catcher who drew some interest from the Red Sox.

"And my dad never even told me that," Reggie said. "I had to find out about the Red Sox while reading a book on Tulane's baseball history. That's the kind of guy he is."

Tony Reginelli was a worker, a grinder and a man of precious few complaints. He was in Memorial Medical Center for treatment on his liver infection when Katrina hit New Orleans with an apocalyptic fury in 2005. The levees broke, flood waters started rising in and around the hospital, and Reginelli escaped and pulled himself onto a National Guard truck already overloaded with screaming patients and residents.

"I was the last one to get out," Reginelli said.

He was transported to Baton Rouge while his daughter-in-law, a nephrologist, stayed behind to treat patients at Memorial, where several patients did not make it out and the bodies of those who didn't survive the storm were kept in the hospital's chapel.

"After Katrina my father was down," said Reggie, 55, an attorney who also runs a pizzeria business. "My mom told me he was upset and saying, 'I just don't know if I've done anything in my life.' I said, 'You've got to be kidding me. He's touched so many lives at Newman, and you'd have to put 100 people together to match that. His legacy will live through that school and everyone he touched.'"


Manning spearheaded an effort to raise more than $100,000 to rebuild some structures around the Newman football field. AP Photo/Pat Semansky
Peyton Manning was among the hundreds upon hundreds of students who were better for knowing Reginelli over his four-plus decades at Newman. Reggie remembers watching Peyton as a sophomore, his first year as the varsity starter, and thinking in the first few games of the season that the kid still had plenty to learn.

"But by the middle of the year," Reggie recalled, "suddenly Peyton was hitting his receivers in stride. I'll never forget a throw he made at St. Martin's. Peyton threw just a dart to his older brother, Cooper, who was streaking across the middle of the field, and it was right where it needed to be. It was a major college throw as a high school sophomore. Cooper took it for about a 50- or 60-yard touchdown, and I remember thinking, 'Wow, my father has something special here.'"

Soon enough, Peyton became everybody's All-American, the target of Division I powerhouses in every corner of the land. Reggie recalled Peyton being quoted during his senior year saying he wanted to win a state championship for his high school coach; the coach's son found it an awfully mature thing for a teen prodigy to say.

It didn't matter that Newman lost in the state semis. The journey shared by Manning and Reginelli couldn't be measured by some high school scoreboard.

"It would be great if I could make it out to San Francisco," Tony Reginelli said through a sigh. "But I'm going to have to sit this one out."

The old coach laughed one more time over one more thought. Archie Manning finished up his career with Houston and Minnesota, and Reginelli was wondering what would've become of his own career at Newman had Archie moved his family -- young Peyton included -- to one of those cities for keeps.

Truth was, even if the Saints were done with Archie, the Mannings were never, ever leaving New Orleans. Peyton ended up at Newman, Reginelli revamped his offensive system to suit him, and the rest is NFL history.

"My father is my hero," Reggie said, "so it's a great feeling to see what he's meant to Peyton, and to know that Peyton is still lifting his spirits today."

This is the bond so many professional athletes share with so many high school coaches, and one the 39-year-old quarterback of the Denver Broncos will carry onto the Super Bowl 50 field.